Newsletters: add 260 (2023-07-19) (#1204)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-07-19-newsletter.md

  Tor and I2P at the moment, although that may change in the future.

- [Core Lightning #6347][] adds the ability for a plugin to subscribe to
  every event notification using the wildcard `*`.

- [Core Lightning #6035][] adds the ability to request a [bech32m][topic
  bech32] address for receiving deposits to [P2TR][topic taproot] output
  scripts.  Transaction change will also now be sent to a P2TR output by
  default.

- [LND #7768][] implements BOLTs [#1032][bolts #1032] and [#1063][bolts
  #1063] (see [Newsletter #225][news225 bolts1032]), allowing the
  ultimate receiver of a payment (HTLC) to accept a greater amount than
  they requested and with a longer time before it expires than they
  requested.  Previously, LND-based receivers adhered to [BOLT4][]'s
  requirement that the amount and expiry delta equal exactly the amount
  they requested, but that exactitude meant a forwarding node could
  probe the next hop to see if it was the final receiver by changing
  either value by the slightest bit.

- [Libsecp256k1 #1313][] begins automatic testing using development
  snapshots of the GCC and Clang compilers which may allow detection of

>   changes to that will result in certain Libsecp256k1 code running in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  changes that could result in certain libsecp256k1 code running in
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #260'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/07/19/
name: 2023-07-19-newsletter
slug: 2023-07-19-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

_No significant news was found this week on the Bitcoin-Dev or
Lightning-Dev mailing lists._

## Waiting for confirmation #10: Get Involved

_The final entry in our limited weekly [series][policy series] about
transaction relay, mempool inclusion, and mining transaction
selection---including why Bitcoin Core has a more restrictive policy
than allowed by consensus and how wallets can use that policy most
effectively._

{% include specials/policy/en/10-get-involved.md %}

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Wallet 10101 beta testing DLCs on Lightning:**
  10101 announced a [wallet][10101 github] built with LDK and BDK that allows users to trade
  derivatives non-custodially using [DLCs][topic dlc] over [Lightning][10101 blog2]. The DLCs rely on
  oracles that use [adaptor signatures][topic adaptor signatures] for price

>   [attestation][10101 blog1].

Author: @bitschmidty I'm uncomfortable with this description.  The way [they describe](https://10101.finance/blog/dlc-to-lightning-part-2/) their Lightning-based DLCs, they're just extending an LN commitment transaction with an extra commitment to a DLC.  That operation is strictly P2P between two counterparties; it's not routable like an LN payment.

To the best of my knowledge, it's not practical to do long-duration DLCs over LN because that would require long-duration HTLCs and, even if you found nodes willing to support HTLCs that wouldn't settle for weeks or months, the contracting parties would need to compensate the forwarding for their locked-up capital.  For example, if there are 10 hops, and the risk-free interest rate is 2%, and you want to enter a 3-month contract, the minimum rational forwarding fee is going to be 6.67% of the contract amount.  At that cost, for even a contract as small as $100, you're probably better off paying normal onchain transactions fees for the DLC (one transaction to open, one to settle, both of them small if it ends in a mutual close).

Maybe instead of saying "using DLCs over Lightning" we could say "using DLCs in an offchain contract that can also be used to send, receive, and forward LN payments".  Also maybe change the title to "Wallet 10101 beta testing pooling funds between LN and DLCs".

Reviewer 2: Dave thanks for the feedback, I had a message to this team earlier in the week, but didn’t get a response. I largely took your suggestions.

- **LDK Node announced:**
  The LDK team [announced][ldk blog] LDK Node [v0.1.0][LDK Node v0.1.0]. LDK Node is a

>   Lightning node Rust library that uses the LDK and BDK libaries to enable developers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Lightning node Rust library that uses the LDK and BDK libraries to enable developers
```

  (CPFP)][topic cpfp] fee bumping for both senders and receivers of a transaction.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

- Core Lightning 23.05.2 FIXME:harding

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #27411][] prevents a node from advertising its Tor or
  I2P address to peers on other networks (such as plain IPv4 or IPv6)
  and won't advertise its address from non-[anonymity networks][topic
  anonymity networks] to peers on Tor and I2P.  This helps prevent

>   someone from connecting a node's regular network address to one of its

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  someone from linking a node's regular network address to one of its
```
"connecting" could be confusing since there are also network connections in this context.

  addresses on an anonymity network.  CJDNS is treated differently from
  Tor and I2P at the moment, although that may change in the future.

- [Core Lightning #6347][] adds the ability for a plugin to subscribe to
  every event notification using the wildcard `*`.

- [Core Lightning #6035][] adds the ability to request a [bech32m][topic
  bech32] address for receiving deposits to [P2TR][topic taproot] output
  scripts.  Transaction change will also now be sent to a P2TR output by
  default.

- [LND #7768][] implements BOLTs [#1032][bolts #1032] and [#1063][bolts
  #1063] (see [Newsletter #225][news225 bolts1032]), allowing the
  ultimate receiver of a payment (HTLC) to accept a greater amount than
  they requested and with a longer time before it expires than they
  requested.  Previously, LND-based receivers adhered to [BOLT4][]'s
  requirement that the amount and expiry delta equal exactly the amount
  they requested, but that exactitude meant a forwarding node could
  probe the next hop to see if it was the final receiver by changing
  either value by the slightest bit.

- [Libsecp256k1 #1313][] begins automatic testing using development

>   snapshots of the GCC and Clang compilers which may allow detection of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  snapshots of the GCC and Clang compilers. This may allow detection of
```

  changes to that will result in certain Libsecp256k1 code running in

>   variable time, which may lead to [side-channel attacks][topic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  variable time. This may lead to [side-channel attacks][topic
```
(to avoid two "which" in the same long sentence if you don't take my suggestion above, or maybe even if you do)
